So the other question is, who reproduces
research?
And I think, this is, I don't know, I'm
not in, this area of,
kind of, genomics and computational
[UNKNOWN], I
don't know how much this is an issue.
But, it's a big issue for me, the, so, in
order for
reproducibility to be effective in any
way, someone has to do something, right?
So if I just say I published this paper,
and it's reproducible.
That doesn't necessarily mean anything,
until you get your
hands on, or someone gets their hands on
the data
coding, and looks at it, and does
something, and maybe even reproduces it,
right?
So someone has to do something.
You have to rerun the analysis.
Check the code, whatever, try some
alternative approaches.
So I think, and this is kind of, in my
sense, it's
kind of the analog of replication, it's
kind of inherited from that tradition.
But the question of who is something and
what is their goal?
Who is this someone and what are their
goals, is very important, and the way
that I kind of characterize it is that
there's kind of three different types of
people
who may want to reproduce your research.
So if you are the original investigator up
here, you say that the truth is A.
There's one group, the general public who
doesn't care.
So that's so that's a large, that's the
largest group of people.
Then there's one called scientists who
either agree
with you maybe that they, that they agree
with, they think the truth is A they may
also, but they also may think the
truth is B.
Okay, so that's fine.
Everyone's got a hypothesis about how the
world works.
And then there's this group of people over
here which believes that
the truth is just whatever the opposite,
it's not whatever you're saying.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And the size of the boxes is
proportional to kind of the
likelihood that these people, that the
people
in that box will reproduce your work.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Scientists like you are likely to
reproduce it, but they're kind
of busy doing their own thing.
So, so there's an issue here that this, in
my opinion, is not really science.
They don't have a specific idea of how the
world works.
They just want to know that it's different
from whatever you're saying.
And so they're very interested in
reproducing my work.
I had it, and thankfully, my work's mostly
been, almost all has been reproducible.
So, so I'm fine with that but it
has the potential to make your personal
life miserable.
So,
so, so far my thinking is that you know,
so reproducing brings
transparency which is critical I think,
and,um, also increases the transfer of
knowledge.
There's a lot of discussion about how to
get people to share data, which is
important.
Data sharing is key, obviously for
reproducibility.
But I think the key question of can we
trust this
analysis that we see up there
is not fundamentally addressed by
reproducibility.
And so further more, reproducibility is
this very down stream
type of element.
And a lot of these secondary types of
analysis are coloured by the
interests and motivations of others, and I
spelled coloured with a u for Candice.
So so this, so that brings us to what I
call evidence-based data analysis.
And so, I think no one will, everyone
here's familiar with the idea that,
you know, a true data analysis involves
stringing together a whole lot of things.
Lots of tools, lots of methods, as this
long pipeline of stuff that you
have to do to do any real data analysis.
And so, a lot of times the methods are
standard, you know,
everyone does the same thing for a given
piece of the pipeline.
Or, if there's no standard, then you just
kind
of make up whatever you want to do, right?
So and the basic idea is, I think, if,
and, to kind of what I, that I want to
kind of
translate to kind of a lot of climatical
science is
that we should just use thoroughly
applied, thoroughly studied methods
that are that we kind of agree upon in our
subgroups in the
scientific, the scientific community, that
these are the appropriate methods to use.
You don't have to be perfect, but we have
to kind of, these, hopefully they're like
the 85% solution.
And there should be evidence to justify
the application of certain
methods, and you know, as statisticians,
we do this all the time.
We, prepare different methods, you know,
either
by simulation or [COUGH] theory or what
not.
I mean you kind of say, which method is
more appropriate in certain, in a given
circumstance?
So, just a very quick example.
This is a histogram that generated R I
just took hist x and, you know, of course,
the histogram is just a smoother, and the
most
important thing in a smoother is the bin,
right?
So I didn't do anything I just made this
histogram, so how did the bin get chosen?
So it turns out there was a paper written
by Sturgis
in 1926, published in [UNKNOWN], paper is
actual a very generous term
this thing was like this long, but Booth
suggested that the band,
the bandwidth should be done according to
this, you know, formula basically.
Later on, when the kind of kernel
smoothing became
popular, David Scott wrote a paper in
Biometrico of
which talked about, you know, choosing the
bandwidth based
on kind of the integrated means for
multivariate measures.
So anyways, the default bandwidth is just
programmed in and there it is, alright?
No one argues for the most part with, with
him,
sometimes when they get smaller and bigger
that's fine but use
the default.
It's pretty good, and there's actually
some
research behind what that bandwidth should
be.